# asking for help

I need your help.

Help me out.

I'm stuck.

I'm overwhelmed.

I'm at my wit's end.

I'm having some trouble.



## To Acquaintance

 **Can you do me a favor?** Some weird numbers have been calling me all week.

 or

**What should I do** if some weird numbers keep calling me all week?



5Ws 1H

## To Strangers

**Could you please** tell me what I should do if some strange numbers have been calling me all week?

**Would you mind**  telling me how to deal with robocalls?

**I was wondering if you could** tell me how to deal with those telemarketers' calls. 

**I would appreciate it if you** could help me with this problem.

# Giving Suggestions

**I think you could** just try blocking these numbers.

**I suggest** that you block them.  

**I suggest** blocking them.

**How about** filing a complaint?

**What don't you** ask the magic conch?（SpongeBob）



because/since/as

because of /dut to/as a result of/on account of 

I suggest you file a complaint because people who leak personal information without permission should be punished.



=

The other day I was in some trouble. I called customer service, and told her that a few unknown numbers kept calling me. It seemed like they wanted me to buy a house in Beijing. I'd appreciate it if she could tell me how to deal with that. She said she was sorry about it and suggested taht I block those numbers.

However, that's almost impossible, because I don't even remember how many numbers have called me. I was wondering if she could provide some more effective ways to do this. 

Surprisingly, she thought I could file a complaint against them.

I could give it a go.  



== I love Grammarly

One day, Chris can't stand it anymore that a few telemarketers have been calling him for a whole week. He was stuck. 

He called customer service, saying, "Could you please how can I deal with these unknown numbers?".

"I suggest blocking them?" customer service said.

"I tried it, but I can only block those that already called me," Chris said.

Why doesn't Chris be cruel and file a complaint?