**How dose it attract you?**

has been a fairly new experience for me.

This course has been a fairly new experience for me.

adj

- attractive
- fascinating
- charming
- appealing

v.

- be attracted by

- be fascinated with

- be interested in 

- appeal to

**I tried this because** this new format **was** appealing to me.

**I tried this because I** was interested in the new format.

**I tried this because** this new format **appealed to me**.
I tried playing basketball because teamwork is attractive.

I tried playing the piano because I'm fascinated by its tone.

I tried waking up early because sunrise appeals to me.

**How to describe something interesting?**

- I do find them a lot of fun to make..

- I got a lot of entertainment from ....

I got a lot of entertainment from filming the new course.

- It's also been kind of fun to ...

It's also been kind of fun to bring my parents and wife into the filming at times.

I do find it a lot of fun to learn maths.

I got a lot of fun from singing.

I found something interesting in cooking.

It's been kind of fun to read.

**How to describe something challenging?**

- It's difficult for me to do sth.

It was difficult for me to make sure all the angles were right while holding a camera and doing other things. After all, I only have two hands.

- I found it challenging to ...

I found it challenging to make sure the angles were right while holding a camera and doing other things.

- What has been challenging is that ...

What has been challenging is that I can't shoot more footage out in the real world.

It's difficult for me to resist temptation.

I found it difficult to finish my job on time.

What has been challenging is that I can't control the heat while cooking.

**How do you feel?**

It's not that I'm so smart, it's just that I stay with problems longer.

Where there is a will there is a way.

You have to walk before you can run.

Constant dripping wears away a stone.

 

This course has been a fairly new experience for me. I tried this because the new format appealed to me.

Meanwhile, I got a lot of entertainment from making the course, because I learned more about filming, and it's been kind of fun to bring my parents and wife into the filiming at times.

However, it was difficult for me to make sure the angles were right while I was holding a camera and doing other things. Besides that, what's also been challenging is that I can't shoot more footage out in the real world. But you have to walk before you can  run, so this might be a starting point for the future courses!



========== Grammarly

ByteDance Software Engineer job has literally attracted me. I tried this because its salary and working environment appeal to me.

I practiced a lot of the LeetCode questions because they will ask me something about them. It's difficult for me to solve the algorithm question. But I do find them a lot of fun to understand how to solve these.

Every day I want to give up, so I can choose another company. I really do that, so I want to cancel the interview about ByteDance.