1.

First, you gotta do a little warm-up to keep you from getting hurt.

With my feet shoulder-width apart. I start off with some squats.

From here, get down to the floor and do some push-ups. And it's hard to keep my core tight, but I'm hanging in there.

Next, I do bench press to work on my chest.

Again, you need to stay tight, arch your back a little, and dig in with your feet!

Before I finish my workout, I need to do a bit of stretching to relax my muscles. Lean into it and breathe in and out.

Okay, I'm done with my workout. And it feels really good, but I'm gonna be really sore tomorrow.

If you really wanna get fit, then you gotta try to keep it up. Even if it's not COVID-friendly for you to hit the gym, you still can do some easy moves at home.

-----

I did this because I was attracted by the idea of working out without going outside, which was also COVID-friendly.

I discovered something interesting when I tried to work out at home. My parents peeked at me from time to time, and it kind of made me feel a little awkward.

 On the other hand, what's been challenging is that unlike in a gym, where there are a lot of people around and push you to hang in there. At home, somtimes I get lazy and I feel like giving up.

I always feel exhausted but refreshed after working out. Every time I feel like giving up, I remind myself how great I'll feel after finishing, being able to lift more, and that nothing can be achieved without perseverance.

2.

Hey, how have you been?

Good. You?

Great. Hey, I've been thinking of going on a trip after this quarantine. What do you think?

Hell yeah! **I'm on board.** Where do you wanna go?

Not sure yet... Bhutan?

... **How come?**

Just try to figure out places I've never **ventured into.**

I kind of prefer somewhere nearby. ‘Cause the whole airline situation is still kind of unstable. 

Hmmm... let's flip a coin.

Yeah, we can call it in the air. But when's the quarantine gonna be over though? 

.... It will be. Sooner or later. I hope all of us will get through the pandemic as soon as possible. Then we can travel around the world again. 

Anyway, I hope all of us will get through the pandemic as soon as possible. The we can travel around the world again. 

----

I wanted to travel to Bhutan because it's fascinating to go somewhere I've never ventured to.

I find it really fun to go somewhere unfamiliar because I get to see some new things and cultures.

However, what has been difficult is that this whole airline situation is still kind of unstable.

I hope all of us get through the pandemic as soon as possible. Then we can travel around the world again.

3.

So one week ago I saw an ad for a new game on Youtube, I was like bro this game looks super fun. It's a new type of game I've never tried before. So I logged in my Steam and clicked the **purhase** button with excitement. A few hours later it was downloaded and fully installed.

I opened the game, and the starting CG and **initial** UI left me great impression. I then started the campaign and played it for a while. I gotta say I was super **impressed by** the next-generation graphics and the latest effects, and the story is deep and intersting too!

I literally wanna spend all my spare time on this game.

I even considered getting a new Xbox controller so I could play it while I'm in bed.

Sadly if I stare at the screen for too long I get headaches.

So every day I'm make small progress on the campaign.

I guess we should try to have a rational and reasonable attitude regarding new things, rather than just rejecting them.

When you think critically, but give it a chance, it might open doors to a whole new world.

----

This is brand new game for me. I tried this game because the graphics and the gameplay are extremely impressive.

It was kind of fun when I played this game for the first time because the story was so good I couldn't stop myself from playing it more and more.

After couple days I found it hard for me to play it from a long time because if I stare at the screen for too long, I start to get headaches. And I need to get used to the controller to handle the character better.

Although I'm still really bad at game in general, I believe that where there is a will, there is a way. One day, maybe I could even join the eSports team. But probably not.



======= Grammarly

I was like bro this game looks super fun. I tried playing Cyberpunk 2077 because of its next-generation graphics and the latest effects, and the story is deep and interesting too.

It's hard for me to stare at the screen for too long. I start to get headaches. I feel even better to play it with an Xbox controller if I had one. 

I think I should be good at eSports. One day, maybe I could be top of the world in eSports. 

But it never happens. 