both...and...

**regardless of** / no matter / in spite of / despite

前者表示无论是什么情况，已发生或未发生的，都无所谓。in spite of 表示已知的一种情况。 

We're gonna see the movie in spite of the reviews.

We're gonna see the film regardless of the reviews.

tons of / loads of / a great/large/huge amount of  / a number of  / a good/ great many

adapt to  / get used to

make one's way to  

经过相当程度的努力，通常过程并不是一帆风顺的，也可译为朝着某个方向艰难行进或者是一路向前

I'm gonna make my way to the stage as a dancer.

He made his way to the top through hard work and determinanation.

make way for 为... 让路，

make way for the queue.

 including



Both Trance music and House music is my favorite genre.

I'll make my way to learn to make electronic music regardless of time is not enough.

I had listened to tons of EDM, including House, Trance, DubStep, HardStyle, and Bass.





==== Grammarly

I'm a big fan of Eminem. 

He's the first white rapper who became worldwide famous.

I like him because he raps really fast and made his own style.

He has made both old school albums and new school albums.

Anything he hates or loves, he just raps about it regardless of **critiques** and disses.

Besides, his story was even **adapted to** a movie called *8 Mile*.

In the movie, Eminem was cast as Rabbit, who was basically him.

The picture told the story of a Detroit car factory worker who **made his way** to becoming a world-famous rap star.

I also gotta mention that every song in the movie was written by Eminem himself, including the very famous "Lose yourself" that won an Academy Award for Best Original Song that year.

I think art is really important to our lives, it can even define civilization.

So, we should really respect the power of art.