**be seen as** 

His approval is been as crucial.

The new competitor is been as a big threat.

**名词+ist 结尾 ** // 某个领域的专家，有某领域的专长。
piano pianist

guitar guitarist 

violin violinist

psychology psychologist

biology biologyist 

economics economist

developerist

**all**

All we get from astrology is bunch of stereotypes.

Stay polite, That's all I ask.

All I want for this new year is for things to get a little better.

All I want for Christmas is you.

All I want is peace and quiet.

This organization is all about making money.

**look up**

**indeed**    确实，果然。起强调作用，根据情况可以放在谓语动词和宾语之间，也可以放在句首。

Indeed, he was ahead of his time in hiring women. 

**what  ...!**

 

All I want for this new job is for my life to get better. I always was seen as Junior Soft Engineer. What a crap! They should look up more things about my ability. 



==== Grammarly

When I first met people or started making new friends in China, one of the most commonly asked questions was "What's your zodiac sign?"

As Pisces guy, this wasn't the most beneficial question for me as I'd be immediately seen as a playboy.

Yet Pisces isn't the worst, there are worse ones, like Virgos are perfectionists, Capricorns are cold as ice, and so on.

This kind of experience somehow made me feel that all we got from astrology stereotypes!

But the funny thing is when I looked up my zodiac sign online, it said Pisces and Scorpio are a perfect match.

And my wife is indeed a Scorpio.

What a coincidence! It's such a mystery, isn't it?

After checking your horoscope, if you get scared or upset by the prediction, maybe it's a little bit too much.

Anyhow, you gotta find a balance between the two, right? 





巨蟹座 Cancer 

狮子座 Leo