# it's better to A than B

It's better to finish it as soon as possible than to complain about it.

it's better to .

If these things were mentioned in the previous context, we can use it's better to.

It's better to leave than to stay.

It's better to see for one time than to hear for many times.

# sense some tension

sixth sense. 第六感

sense 更偏向感官上的察觉，和直觉。

# saying

非谓语动词做状语

# stand up for

stand up for sth

stand up for someone

**Synonyms**

root for（非正式）

speak in one's favor（正式）

 He always stand up for his mom while his parents are arguing.

# hear sb. out

 We should hear people out before we make any judgements.



====== Grammarly

The girl was like, "I hate my boss. He gave too much work to do..."

And her boyfriend interrupted, "It's better to finish it as soon as possible than to complain about it"

Then I sensed some tension.

The girl started to get defensive, saying "I feel like you're standing up for my boss."

Then here comes the boy's explanation.

He said that he was just trying to figure out a way to help her get through the task faster.

This response totally irritated the girl.

She just sighed and said, "Enough is enough. You don't even know what I need."

Fortunately, the boy finally said, "Sorry honey. I should've heard you out and supported you. If I were you, I would be annoyed, too."

It's hard to avoid arguments in our daily lives, especially with loved ones.

Next time they complain about something or ask for help, maybe just try to be mindful of their feelings first.

That way, we won't end up confused by their behavior.



没有 Grammarly 我可怎么办啊。

