# safe and sound

I‘m happy you're safe and sound.

# in some way

 in any way

in a way

I'm curious about the artist in some way.

She won't throw away her cat in any way.

In a way, I'm pretty handsome!!! (lol)

# days off

I have some days off next month.

I'd like to ask for some time off to see the dentist tomorrow.

我明天想请假去看牙医。这里的 off 是离开工作岗位一段时间的意思。

# be free from

duty free shop 免税店

Some free area 无烟区

从中解脱

He wants to be free from his parents.

# which is 

can be avoid duplication

# take .. for granted

grant 授权

Don't take my love for granted.

I'm not gonna take any normal boring day for granted.





========== Grammarly

During the lockdown, I got plenty of time to look back on my life.

I'm really lucky that my family and friends are safe and sound.

Also, thanks to the quarantine, I can spend more time with my loved ones and try things that I said I would do but just never happened.

And in some way, the earth can have some days off and be free from noise and emissions, which is pretty cool.

Meanwhile, I do feel sorry for those who lost their jobs, who are suffering from depression.

And I guess it's a big challenge for all of us and we're gonna have to stay strong and positive.

After this experience, I really feel like I should live my life to the fullest and I'm not gonna take any ordinary day for granted.

I feel really sorry for those who lost their lives during this pandemic.

My the Rest In Peace. And I'm really grateful for those who have been fighting on the frontlines. Stay healthy!