If you think Tim Cook has always led a charmed life at the helm of Apple, think again. The years straight after the death of Steve Jobs in 2011 were a trial by fire. First there was antitrust: America's Department of Justice(DoJ) sued Apple for conspiring to fix e-book prices. Then there was competition: Samsung, a South Korean rival, went to war with iPhone with bigger, **sleeker**<sup>[ˈsliː.kər]Having a smooth, polished, or well-groomed appearance; designed in a streamlined, efficient manner.</sup> models. Then came broader concerns. Apple's new voice assistant, Siri, made rookie errors. Ditto Apple Maps, which went as far as relocating the Washington Monument to the Potomac River. At the time, the question hanging over the company was existential: could Apple's creative spark survive the death of its founder? One of Mr Cook's lieutenants was so **miffed**<sup>[mɪft]Slightly annoyed or offended</sup> at the criticisms that he publicly **retorted**<sup>[rɪˈtɔːrtɪd]Replied or responded sharply or angrily to someone</sup> in 2013: "Can't innvocate anymore, my ass!"

A decade or so later, Mr Cook may be having a moment of Déjà vu. On all three counts - antitrust, Aisan competition, the existential question of innovation and growth - there are parallels between then and now. Competition watchdogs in the EU are **demanding compliance**<sup>Requiring adherence to a set of rules, standards, or conditions.</sup> by March 7th with rules that for the first time breach the "walled garden" which keeps users and developers bound within Apple's playpen. In America the DoJ's **trustbusters**<sup>[ˈtrʌstˌbʌs.tɚz]执行反垄断法的政府官员或当局，旨在防止垄断和促进竞争</sup> may soo launch a case against Apple. In China, Huawei, a domestic **mastodon**<sup>[ˈmæs.təˌdɑn]形象地描述在特定领域或行业中的某些大型、强大和占主导地位的事物</sup>, is seizing market share. Hanging over everything is the **nagging**<sup>[ˈnæɡ.ɪŋ]持续地担忧或烦恼；难以忽视或解决。</sup> concern, amid a levelling off in iPhone sales, that Mr Cook is missing the oppportunity to pull another rabbit out of the hat with generative artificial intelligence(gen AI).

In short, with its market value down by 10% since mid-December, and Microsoft, thanks to gen AI, **vaulting**<sup>[ˈvɔltɪŋ]跳跃或弹跳，如体操或跨越障碍；超越或卓越</sup> past it to become the world's most valuable company, **sceptics**<sup>[ˈskɛp.tɪks]People inclined to question or doubt accepted opinions;</sup> wonder if Apple is now so **dominant**<sup>[ˈdɑm.ɪ.nənt]Having power and influence over others;</sup> it has lost its mojo. So **jaded**<sup>[ˈdʒeɪdɪd]Worn out or wearied, as by overwork or overuse; dulled by surfeit.</sup> is the **narrative**<sup>[ˈnær.ə.tɪv]A spoken or written account of connected events; a story.</sup> that many pay little **heed**<sup>Pay attention to; take notice of.</sup> to buzz about the Vision Pro, Apple's snazzy-though **lavishly**<sup>[ˈlæv.ɪʃ.li]In a rich or plentiful way; abundantly.</sup> priced-mixed - reality headset. What hopes they have are pinned on the company's annual developer conference in June, when they want Mr Cook to announce whizzy gen-AI upgrades proving that Apple can join the chatbot **hypefest**<sup>[ˈhaɪpˌfɛst]An event characterized by excessive or exaggerated publicity or promotion.</sup>. That, though, is not how the company does things. Nor should it be.

Go back to the threat from Samsung in Mr Cook's early days. Back then investors pestered Apple to come up with a bigger phone, just as now they want it to match Samsung's models with gen-AI bells and **whistles**<sup>[ˈwɪs.əlz]附加在某物上的配件或特性，通常是不必要的或装饰性的</sup>. But Apple doesn't rush things. It wasn't until the launch of the iPhone 6 in 2014 that it produced a large-screen phone. When it came, it was a smash hit. **Its modus operandi remains the same**<sup>它的运作模式依旧如此</sup>. It is rarely first with a product. It seeks to improve what is already out here, learning from others' mistakes and eventually **trouncing**<sup>[ˈtraʊnsɪŋ]Defeating someone or something decisively.</sup> the competition. Of course, that poses a risk. In theory, a scrappy upstart may produce new technology products cheaper and faster, **pulling the rug** from under the market leader. Perhaps a young company building a killer device for the gen-AI era already has Apple in its sights.

Ye you do not haev to be a true believer to see why Apple may be right to take its time. First, there will be more to gen AI than chatbots. They appear to be a revolutionary technology. But so far they are just a better(and accident-prone) way of puting in a query and getting an answer. That is not Apple's **forte**. "They area features, not products," as Horace Dediu, an expert on Apple, puts it. Nor does Apple compete with other tech giants, such as Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet, to run cloud-computing platforms with large language models(LLMs) on which other firms can build gen-AI apps. Instead of relying on cloud services, it seems to be working on ways to embed gen AI its own devices, **bolstering** its ecosystem. Since 2017 it has been using homemade chip technology called neural engines to handle machine-learning and AI functions that its gadgets use behind the scenes.

In late February it emerged that it was scrapping its ten-year project to build an Apple card and redirecting the engineers towards gen AI. No doubt it is moving up a gear - though not from an idle start. Apple will reveal nothing about its **intentions**. But one of the options it has is hiding in plain sight: the Vision Pro. THe most recent gen-AI lauches, such as OpenAI's Sora, which converts text to video, and Groq, which speaks at humanlike speed in response to questions, suggest that eventually something other than written words could be the main gateways to gen-AI. The Vision Pro is all about sounds and images.

# Known unknowns
In the short term none of this will resolve the growth question. In fact, the regulatory **onslaught** in the EU via the Digital Markets Act, which from this week will apply to big-tech "gatekeepers" including Apple, could potentially **crimp** its biggest growth engine, services. For the fisrt time Apple will be forced to allow third-party app marketplaces and alternative payment systems outside its Apple Store on devices in Europe. It has made no secret of its **disdain** for the rules. It calls them a threat to safety and privacy, and has introduced complex new fees for those who dare bypass its protective walls. Some developers have slammed its compliance measures, but they are likely to work: **inertia** means that many will probaly stick with the status quo. As for a possible DOJ antitrust case, it would be a headache. But its scope is not yet clear.

China is a bigger problem with no clear solution. Huawei has become a **formidable** competitor, though in the long run it may be constrained by an America-led ban on sales to it of high-end chips. However big the geopolitical risks, Apple and China are so co-dependent that they may be stuck with one another.

Still, don't give up on Mr Cook yet. Apple is bound to be working to gen-AI products that do not leave egg on its face - just, as is its way, not in the open. At this stage, the vast sums needed to train AI models favour deep-pocketed **incumbents** over scrappy upstarts, which will work to Apple's advantage. You can almost hear Cupertino muttering, "Can't innovate anymore, my ass!"