https://www.economist.com/culture/2022/07/21/henry-kissinger-explains-what-he-thinks-makes-great-leadership

His study of six leaders from the 20th century is partial but enlightening.

Whatever you think Henry Kissinger, the 99-year-old former national security adviser and secretary of state in the Nixon and Ford administrations has an elephantine<sup>大象般、丰富的</sup> memory and experience that makes it an important historical resource. In his latest book, Mr Kissinger, an unofficial adviser and friend to many prsidents and prime ministers, considers how six leaders from the second half of the 20th century reoriented<sup>重新定位，oriented object p 面向对象编程</sup> their countries and made a lasting impact on the world.

Mr Kissinger's six are an **eclectic**<sup>不拘一格的</sup> bunch. Konrad Adenauer was the first post-war **chancellor** <sup>总理</sup>of West Germany. Charle de Gaulle<sup>戴高乐</sup> saved France twice, first during the Second World War, and then at the time of the Algerian crisis. The author's old boss, Richard Nixon, shook geopolitics with his opening to China before **scandal** brought him down. Anwar Sadat paid with his life for forging a lasting peace with Israel as Egypt's president. Lee Kuan Yew made tiny Singapore one of the most prosperous<sup>繁荣、兴旺</sup> places on Earth. And Margaret Thatcher reversed decades of British decline while widening<sup>扩大</sup> social and economic divisions before being defenestrated by her party. 

A project of this kind might have amounted to a series of brief **eulogistic**<sup>/ˌjuː.ləˈdʒɪs.tɪk/颂扬的</sup> biographies<sup>传记</sup> of famous people. Much of the book will indeed be familiar to many readers-and at times the author's wellness to **glide** over inconvenient truths is distasteful. She justifies Nixon's convert bombing of Cambodia<sup>柬埔寨</sup> by the need to force the Vietnamese to negotiate<sup>/nəˈɡoʊ.ʃi.eɪt/ 谈判</sup>. One of its consequences, the rise of the Khmer Rouge, **merits** a single sentence, which blames Congress for cutting off military aid to the Cambodian government. (Watergate, too, is downplayed.) De Gaulle's extraordinary refusal to give credit to allies fighting and dying to liberate France nearly earns admiration. The controversy in which Thatcher almost revelled escapes all criticism.

The book is redeemed, and more, by analytical framework in which each leader is examined, and by the author's knowledge of his subjects. Moreover, the writing is always crisp and lucid, even when conveying arcane theories of international relations, such as the notion of "equilibrium" that defined Nixon's foreign policy (and, by extension, Mr Kissinger's).

Having seen so many leaders at close hand, Mr Kissinger understands the constraints they must acknowledge and bypass. Among these are "scarcity", or the limits of their societies in terms of demography and economic heft; "temporality", or the **prevailing** values habits and attitudes of their times; "competition" from other states that have their own goals; and the "**fluidity**" of events, the pace of which can force decisions to be made on the basis of **intuition** and hypothesis. Leaders must traverse a tightrope from which they fall if they are either too **timid** or too **bold**.

In Mr Kissinger's view, there are essentially two types of leader, the statesman and the prophet. Statesman manipulate circumstances to societies until existing institutions need to be changed or confronted. Prophets are prepared, if not eager, to break with past no matter the risk.

Five of his six leaders clearly belong more to one category or the other. Adenauer, Nixon and Thatcher and most of the characteristics of the author's complete statesman, although all three had a motivating vision. Adenauer **envisaged** a humble Germany able to take its place among other liberal democracies. Nixon was committed to using America's economic and military might to bring the international system into a long-term equilibrium that would render war between great powers much less likely. Thatcher believed passionately in individual autonomy and the capacity for national renewal-if the energies of ordinary people could be freed by the magic of market economics.

By contrast, De Gaulle and Sadat were both driven by a prophetic ideal of what their countries could and should become. De Gaulle feat of of keeping the idea of the Free French alive when stranded in London in 1940 was an almost **mystical triumph** of will over reality. Sadat's bellief that Egypt could never be independent and free without setting the terms of peaceful **coexistence** with Israel was rooted in a profound sense of his country's long history. Both could be pragmatic, but that was not their **main modus operandi**. 

The perfect leader, thinks Mr Kissinger, combines elements of both archetypes. Of his six subjects, Lee may come closest, with his **unflinching realism**, ruthlessness (especially in tackling corruption) and unwavering vision of what a multi-ethnic community of Chinese, Indians and Malays, with few geographical advantages, could archieve. Singapore is far from being a liberal democracy-either Lee or his son have been prime minister for most of the city-state's existence. Mr Kissiger is not to fussed by that, but concedes that Singapore's ability to evolve from its founder's model will become essential to its continued success. The ultimate challenge will be devise a better balance "between popular democracy and modified elitism".

At the close, the author whether leaders are now emerging with "the character, intellect and hardiness required to meet the challenges facing world order." He is not optimistic. The decline in erudition and socially atomising effects of technology are unhelpful. So is the erosion of moral purpose and the religious belief that often underpinned it, and which animated five of these six leaders(even Nixon was influenced by his Quaker upbringing).

Above all, Mr Kissinger writes, faith in the future is the indispenable quality for successful leaders and the "elevated purpose" they aim to inculcate. He ends with a warning: "No society can remain great if it loses faith in itself or if it systematically inpugns its self-perception."