Cinemagoers and Academy voters have not seen eye to eye for more than a decade. "Everything Everywhere All at Once" had grossed only $139m at the global box office when it won Best Picture last year; according to Box Office Mojo, which tracks films, it ranked 34th of all the movies released in 2022. It was hardly a mainstream smash, yet it had a strong showing compared with some of its **predecessors**: "Nomadland", "Spotlight" and "Birdman" all ranked in the 70s in their year of release. ("Moonlight" did not make the top 100.) Little wonder the viewing figures for the **ceremony** have been low: the public has not cared about the winning films.

That made this year's prizegiving, on March 10th, unusual in recent Oscars history. "Oppenheimer" scooped seven Academy awards, including Best Picture, and proved to be as beloved by the Academy as by the public. Despite being a **gloomy** and complex drama about scientists, Christopher Nolan's biopic of J.Robert Oppenheimer was the third-highest-grossing film in the world in 2023, and has made $958 in ticket sales to date. Greta Gerwig's "Barbie" was in first place, with $1.4bn, and that was a Best Picture nominee too.

This marks something of realignment. "The Godfather" was the highest-grossing release of 1972 and won three Oscars, including Best Picture. There were many occasions in the 1990s and 2000s when the Best Picture winner was one of the biggest films of the year(for example, "Titanic", "Gladiator" and "The Lord of The rings: The Return of The King"). The last popular film to win was "The King's Speech" in 2011. After that, Best Picture went to the likes of "The Artist", "Argo" and "12 Years A Slave". None was a top-30 hit in the year of release. 

The most obivous reason for this change was that Hollywood's executives came to feel that heavyweight standalone films were not a wise investment: it was more efficient to launch a series of action movies, replete with digital effects, one after the other. The "Harry Potter" and "The Lord of the Rings" films set off the trend, but the most influential of these franchises was the Marvel Cinematic Universe, which got started in 2008 with "Iron Man". Movies were released at a rapid clip and often flew to the top of then annual box-offfice chart.

Other sudios followed Marvel's lead, and not just with superhero characters. Instalments of "Mission: Impossible", "Fast & Furious" and "Jurassic Park" started to regularly fall off the end of their repective production lines. Animated films did, too. In the 20th century, most of Hollywood's big-screen cartoons were Disney productions, and they hardly ever had **sequels**. But in the 21st century serveral major animation studios were built not on one-off stories but on continuing series: "Madagascar", "Ice Age", "Despicable Me" and so on.

These films were popular with audiences, but non of them was ever likely to win cinema's biggest **plaudit**. The crowd-pleasing blockbuster and the critic-pleasing passion project were no longer one and the same. With Hollywood abandoning grown-up dramas for commercial **franchises**, the way was open for lower-budget independent films to **prevail**. That is what has happened. Several recent Best Picture winners have also **triumphed** at the Independent Spirit awards, awarded by a non-profit supporting independent films-makers, which were meant to be the edgy alternative to the Academy's glitzy celebration of the Hollywood mainstream.

This year may prove to be a blip: none of this year's other eight Best Picture nominees made anywhere near as much money as "Oppenheimer" and "Barbie" did. Yet Mr Nolan and Ms Gerwig showed thata you could draw in crowds and give those crowds something to think about afterwards. Perhaps their success will persuade Hollywood to invest in some more distinctive films, without muscly superheroes or muscle cars.
