复习课

We'll get through this.

When I try to imagine myself in his situation, I think of the pain he's feeling which must be really annoying.

And if I couldn't feel happy or have any other positive feelings, I could just imagine losing interest in everything.



I understand what it's like. When I was travelling in Thailand, the tipping rules were completely foreign to me as well. I totally get it.

Do you want me to tell you about the tipping rules in different countries? I can send you a link about it if you want.

If I were one of the Americans working in the service industry, I would wnat customers to tip me as much as possible.

I think when we are helped by those people, the least we can do is tip them amount worths their services.



I've got your back. I'm always here for you. Rememberr you can reach out to me whenever.

When you put youself in the shoes of students who study in the countires outside the US and the UK, you might realize that any country could be a cool choice, and in those countries, you might have a totally different experience from what you might imagine and even some unexpected surprises.



Self practice.

========== Grammarly

Actually I also have depression. I understand what it's like. I can come over there if you want me to. We'll get through this.

At some point, I even wanted to commit suicide. The pressure will always pass, and people will always grow. I'll always be there for you.

When I encounter difficulties, I always use sleep to escape these. You can try it.