复习前面几天学习的口语表达，以及 Grammar。



秒速前三天的任意一天的事情。



Chris is a procrastinator. He always delays things like laundry, work, exercise, and so on.

One day, he decides to break this vicious cycle. Because he wants to be a better man who can give his wife a fantastic life. A few days ago，he started waking up at 8 am, productive at work, and do more exercise to get a healthy body. Fitness is the best way to progress yourself if you get a full rest. 

But as same as all procrastinators, he waking up late again. This couldn't be changed because everyone won't out of their comfort zone. 

I think we should start with a small thing, and do it every day. Rome wasn't built in one day. Make a little progress every day. After a year or a few years, we can be a better man .





======= 语法以及时态方面修正后

Chris is a procrastinator. He always delays things like laundry, work, exercise, and so on.

One day, he decides to break this vicious cycle. Because he wants to be a better man who can give his wife a fantastic life. A few days ago，he started waking up at 8 am, **being** productive at work, and do more exercise to get a healthy body. Fitness is the best way to progress yourself if you get a full rest. 

But as same as all procrastinators, he **woke** up late again. This couldn't be changed because everyone won't **go/be** out of their comfort zone. 

I think we should start with a small thing, and do it every day. Rome wasn't built in one day. Make a little progress every day. After a year or a few years, we can be a better man .