# be alien to 

Common sense is alien to me.

我对常识感到陌生。

Orange trees are alien to China.

橙子树对中国来说是外来的。

# insist on

坚持做

I'll insist on my decision.

我坚持做我的决定。

I insisted on eating supper.

# be apt to

倾向于做

易于做。

tend to 

He tends to be late almost everyday.

They tend to fight at least once a month.

# blow one's mind

shock

mind-blowing.

# factor in

factor sth in 

把什么考虑进去。

Factor the cost in

 I have to factor in the distance, the weather, and the price when I plan to go on a trip.

# you know the drill

你懂得

 



========= Grammarly

The first time I arrived in China, I was shocked when it came to tipping.

The lack of tipping in China was alien to me.

Actually, as you know, there's no need to tip in China, because the taxes, service fees, and whatnot are included in the bill.

If you insist on tipping, the people serving you are apt to deem it as a display of sympathy, which is not well-received.

However, when I came back to America, it really blew my mind every time I saw the number on the check.

You have to factor in taxes(between 5% and 10%), plus 15%-20% of the total price as a standard tip in a sit-down restaurant, and maybe even added payment for things like carryout boxes and other stuff while calculating the price.

 These sorts of extra payments really add up quickly.

In fact, American people in the service industry live on tips.

So next time you visit the U.S. and get some service, you know the drill.

Next time you land in a country that you're not really familiar with, remember to figure out their culture and follow the customs.

